h2(#installation).  Installation

Click the link for your operating system to see instructions on how to install TNAPS:

* [[Installing on Debian and Ubuntu|Installing on Debian Ubuntu]]
* [[Installing on Other Linux]]
* [[Installing on Mac OS X]]
* [[Installing on Windows]]

h3(#startup).  Starting up

Each operating system have some notes upon launching TNAPS, so you should consider above installation articles. However in general starting TNAPS in Linux / Mac OS X looks like the following:

```bash
# inside tnaps dir
$ mono tnaps.exe
```

For Windows you should start tnaps service:

```bat
> sc start tnaps
```

h3. Check if it Works

The easiest way to test whether TNAPS is working is to use the curl command-line tool. Now that you have TNAPS running on your local machine, run this command:

```bash
curl http://localhost:9095/tnaps/library/components/names.json
```

This actually calls TNAPS [[management API|Management REST API]] and requests list of installed [[Components]]. If it is a fresh install of TNAPS with only [[standart components]] installed you should get the following result:

```javascript
["HostProvider"]
```

This result means two things:

* TNAPS was installed and is working properly on your machine
* Your TNAPS Library contains one component, namely Host Provider. This component will provide hosting facilities for your future TNAPS applications.

h3. Management Center 

There is more than just curl in TNAPS management. TNAPS offers a complete Management Center web application. To access it navigate your [[modern browser|Supported Browsers]] to the following:

```
http://localhost:9095/tnaps/console
```

h3. Now What?

As you have TNAPS running you'd probably want to test it in action and launch your [[first hand-made stuff|First App]] or dive into [[development]] docs. Be sure to check [[management]] section to know how it is better to handle TNAPS installation.
